Hi come back in this video we're going to look at if statements.
The objective of this video is to print out all the numbers that are greater than 5 remember not print
out false or true but print out the number itself.
If it is greater than 5 so you can take a stab at it if you want.
Remember what we're looking at is if statements.
So if you want to try and just draw the for loop and try and print that out you can do.
But instead of diving right into the for loop Let's backtrack a bit and exit the for loop and just look
at the if statement by itself and that will give you a hint as to how you can do the for loop.
Show 5 is greater than 3 is true.
And we know this.
So true has a special meaning.
True with a capital T.
Notice how it's not a string has a special meaning.
And three years and five has false which is a capital F that also has special meaning in Python.
True means that something is true is right is OK and false means that something is not OK or not true
.
So normally we want to do things in our program.
When something becomes true for example say you've got a game and the player is earning money.
And eventually if the money is greater than 100 you want to tell them they've won.
So your program might check the money every second.
And if the money is greater than 100 then it will tell the player that they've won.
And if not it won't do anything.
So that could be modeled.
For example with an if statement we would simply say if players money greater than one hundred percent
you've won.
So that's exactly how we're going to create our IF statements take a stab at creating an if statement
.
Knowing that the key word is IF and we've looked up for loops.
If this is actually really similar in the way that it's structured.
OK.
So the statement is similar to the for loop in the way that is structured.
It also ends with a semi-colon Zari with a colon and it has the five greater than 3 there.
And then we've got the call on at the end we press enter and Python lets us now do something.
So we're going to print here.
Five is greater than three.
And we press enter twice and then we get five it gets them three knowledge do the opposite and try something
that is not true.
If three is greater than 5 percent this should not happen.
So what do you think is going to happen when I press enter twice and what we are hoping is that nothing
will happen.
Indeed that's the case.
So fantastic.
Piven is still working.
If the expression inside the if statement is false the if statement does not execute if it is true then
it does execute.
So in this case 5 is better than 3.
That is true.
So the print statement executes and if 3 is greater than 5 that is not true.
So the print does not execute Okay.
So now knowing this printout the numbers greater than 5 from our numbers list.
So here you're going to have to use a for loop and an if statement inside it.
So let's look at that for number in numbers.
That's going to iterate over our list.
And then remember number is going to be each of the numbers from 0 to 9.
Every time the for loop runs.
So at first it's going to be 0 and then it's going to be once more and he would say if number is greater
than 5 percent number and there we have it the numbers greater than 5 6 7 8 and 9.
Okay.
So now we know how to create if statements with simple boolean expressions inside them and we are able
to printout only specific parts of the list that interest us in the next video we're going to be looking
at this in a bit more detail and looking at another keyword in Python that we've already seen but not
really used very much.
So I see in the next video